# Design Diary

  Milestone 1 was a good way to come back to CS after a slow summer. Learning a new library can be challenging but it allows time to mess around with various functions and not focus on the structure of your code immediately. Jumping right in to messing around with the curses’ library, I went through a few iterations of my GUI trying to just get a grasp of what functions did what. The first thing I noticed in working with curses is there seem to be multiple ways of doing the same thing. Lots of functions seem redundant but are usually there to support a slightly different way of doing the same thing.
 The design choice I’m most pleased with is switching to segmented terminal windows. This allows for the main window where the text will appear to be isolated and not interfere with the rest of the editor. I segmented my editor in to a preliminary 4 windows: One top bar, one bottom bar, and a main window for all the text. The top and bottom windows will be used for whatever buttons and informational messages I want to display later down the road; currently they have place holder text. The side window is designated for later scroll bar implementation(hopefully). If I can’t get a scroll bar working, I might delete it and free up more space for the main window.
 The first challenge of this project for me was getting back into the idea of abstraction to make life easier down the road.  My first iteration worked just fine on its own, but quickly became clear as I was trying to add more functionality that my design for window creation wasn’t going to work well with each additional functionality added. In order to allow for resizing I created the windows using the same shared variables from the terminals size. This will hopefully allow me to resize all the windows by modifying only two variables (x and y of the terminal) instead of changing each windows’ size each time. Unfortunately, I still haven’t been able to get my terminal to successfully resize yet, but I think I have an idea of where to go. If I can’t get it to work on my own, I will try the solution that was presenting in lecture.
